Excel skill sample (#1461)
OfficeDev/Office-Add-in-samples: Samples/excel-copilot-skill/README.md

---
page_type: sample
urlFragment: excel-copilot-skill
products:
  - copilot
  - m365
  - office
  - office-excel
languages:
  - javascript
extensions:
  contentType: samples
  technologies:
    - Copilot
  createdDate: 07/13/2026 2:19:00 PM
description: "Learn how to create create a custom skill for Copilot in Excel."
---

# Skill for Copilot in Excel (preview)

> This sample shows how to create a custom skill for Copilot in Excel that use the Excel-specific APIs in the Office JavaScript library to find and chart table rows which embody an accelerating growth trend. The skill does *not* run in standalone Microsoft 365 Copilot.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This sample shows how to create a custom skill for Copilot in Excel that uses the Excel-specific APIs in the Office JavaScript library to find and chart table rows which embody an accelerating growth trend. The skill does *not* run in standalone Microsoft 365 Copilot.
```

> ![Screenshot showing Excel with a small table and a chart of the data in the first data row of the table](./images/accelerating-growth-skill-results.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Screenshot showing Excel with a small table and a chart based on the first data row of the table.](./images/accelerating-growth-skill-results.png)
```

> ![Screenshot showing a Copilot in Excel chat a report of how Copilot used the skill to find and chart a table row](./images/accelerating-growth-skill-chat.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Screenshot showing a Copilot in Excel chat reporting how Copilot used the skill to find and chart a table row.](./images/accelerating-growth-skill-chat.png)
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Although this sample is packaged and sideloaded just like any other App for Microsoft 365, it doesn't have files that are hosted on a web server or cloud service. All the files for the skill are included in the app package. 

## Applies to

- Excel on Windows and Mac
- Copilot in Excel

## Prerequisites

> - [Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoftteams/platform/toolkit/microsoft-365-agents-toolkit-cli)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Microsoft 365 Agents Toolkit CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/microsoftteams/platform/toolkit/microsoft-365-agents-toolkit-cli)
```

- A Microsoft 365 Developer Account

> - Microsoft 365 on Windows version 2608 (Build 20305.20002) or later, or Microsoft 365 on Mac version 16.112.26070718 or later.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Microsoft 365 on Windows Version 2608 (Build 20305.20002) or later, or Microsoft 365 on Mac Version 16.112.26070718 or later.
```

   > **Note:** If you don't already have an Microsoft 365 subscription, you might qualify for a Microsoft 365 E5 developer subscription through the [Microsoft 365 Developer Program](https://aka.ms/m365devprogram); for details, see the [FAQ](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/developer-program/microsoft-365-developer-program-faq#who-qualifies-for-a-microsoft-365-e5-developer-subscription-). Alternatively, you can [sign up for a 1-month free trial](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/try) or [purchase a Microsoft 365 plan](https://www.microsoft.com/microsoft-365/business/compare-all-microsoft-365-business-products-g).

## Run the sample

1. Install @microsoft/m365agentstoolkit-cli in a Windows command prompt, Mac system prompt, or bash shell with the following command.

   ```bash
   npm install -g @microsoft/m365agentstoolkit-cli
   ```

>    If you are prompted to sign in, use your Microsoft 365 developer account credentials. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If you're prompted to sign in, use your Microsoft 365 developer account credentials. 
```

> 1. In the window navigate to the root of this sample, and then install the agent package with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the same window, navigate to the root of this sample, and then install the agent package with the following command.
```

   ```bash
   atk install --file-path "my-copilot-plugin-skills.zip" --scope Personal
   ```

   A successful installation returns output that includes a TitleId and AppId for your account.

1. Open the **Text.xlsx** file in the root of the sample. 

> 1. Ensure that you are signed in to Excel with your developer account credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ensure that you're signed in to Excel with your developer account credentials.
```

1. Open Copilot in Excel, and verify that your skill is installed with the following steps.

    1. Select the **+** icon in the chat area.

>     1. The **All Skills** option in the dropdown that opens will be disabled at first. Wait until it is enabled and then select it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. The **All Skills** option in the dropdown that opens will be disabled at first. Wait until it's enabled and then select it.
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Always uninstall the app completely when you are finished working with it. See [Uninstall the sample](#uninstall-the-sample).

## Uninstall the sample

1. Open Teams and be sure you're signed in with the same credentials you used to install the skill.
1. On the Teams app bar, select the apps button.
1. On the **Apps** pane, select **Manage your apps**.
1. Find the **Accelerating Growth Trends** app in the list of apps.
1. Select the add-in to expand its row.

   ![Screenshot showing 'Accelerating Growth Trends' app in the Teams list of installed apps](./images/accelerating-growth-skill-teams-store-entry.png)

1. Select the trash can icon and then select **Remove** in the prompt.

## Key parts of the sample

The sample, and the zipped package, has the following structure.

```text
|-- manifest.json
|-- color.png
|-- outline.png
|-- skills/
    |-- accelerating-growth-trend-finder/
        |-- SKILL.md
        |-- resources/
            |-- workbook-data-guardrails.md
            |-- excel-vs-agent-execution.md
        |-- scripts/
            |-- find-accelerating-growth-trend-rows.js
```

> The SKILL.md file contains the basic instructions to Copilot in Excel about when and how to invoke the skill. The two resource files put further constraints on the use of the skill. The script file contains the function that calls Office.js. For more information about all of these files, see [Create a Copilot skill for Excel that uses the Office JavaScript Library](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev/add-ins/excel/excel-copilot-skill).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **SKILL.md** file contains the basic instructions to Copilot in Excel about when and how to invoke the skill. The two resource files put further constraints on the use of the skill. The script file contains the function that calls Office.js. For more information about all of these files, see [Create a Copilot skill for Excel that uses the Office JavaScript Library](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/excel/excel-skills).
```

## Modify the sample

> The source files are in the folder **my-copilot-plugin-skills**. For information about their purposes, see [Create a Copilot skill for Excel that uses the Office JavaScript Library](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/excel/excel-copilot-skill).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The source files are in the folder **my-copilot-plugin-skills**. For information about their purposes, see [Create a Copilot skill for Excel that uses the Office JavaScript Library](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/excel/excel-skills).
```
I get a 404 error with the current link. Is this the correct article by any chance?

Author: These links work now. The article that is being linked to is brand new and it had not been merged to live when you were reviewing this sample PR.

An app package with the source files in it has already been created in the root of the sample folder. If you make changes to the source files, you must recreate the package with a ZIP utility. Be sure that you have uninstalled the previous version by following the steps in [Uninstall the sample](#uninstall-the-sample), and then reinstall the package as described in [Run the sample](#run-the-sample).

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > Don't change the folder structure of the sample. For more information, see [Package the skill](https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/excel/excel-copilot-skill?branch=main#task-8-package-the-skill).

Reviewer: This is also giving a 404 error, but I couldn't find this section in https://learn.microsoft.com/office/dev/add-ins/excel/excel-skills (if this is the correct replacement article).
